---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/powerful-figures-are-important-in-self-efficacy/","tags":["source"]}
---

reference:: [Textbook](x-devonthink-item://87ADA324-8B75-430C-95FB-052DE49A3CFF?page=304&start=623&length=1638&search=We%20want%20to%20take%20a%20moment%20to%20highlight%20this%20last%20area%20of%20study%3A%20the%20important%20roles%20that%20powerful%20figures%20may%20have%20in%20the%20development%20of%20self-efficacy.%20For%20children%20and%20adolescents,%20parents%20and%20teachers%20may%20hold%20the%20most%20power%20and%20expert%20quality%20in%20their%20yo)

We want to take a moment to highlight this last area of study: the important roles that powerful figures may have in the development of self-efficacy. For children and adolescents, parents and teachers may hold the most power and expert quality in their young lives. There is much evidence to show that the self-efficacy shown by these figures can affect the development of the same trait in children. Teachers who are high in self-efficacy have better relationships with their students (de Jong et al., 2014) and are more inclusive in a number of situations, including with students who have disabilities or exhibit other differences (Vaz et al., 2015). Parents may also provide modeling of self-efficacy, and this may influence children in ways that are difficult to predict. In a study by Byrne, Accurso, Arnow, Lock, and Le Grange (2015) looking at adolescents diagnosed with anorexia nervosa (AN) and their parents, findings showed that self-efficacy played a role in weight gain for these adolescents who were in family therapy with their parents. Interestingly, it was not the self- efficacy of the individuals diagnosed with AN that appeared to predict the weight gain but the self-efficacy of their parents, which showed predictive quality for weight gain in these teens! It appears that these parents’ belief that things could be remedied with regard to weight gain did not necessarily make the adolescents believe in their own ability, but perhaps they “borrowed” some of their parents’ self-efficacy on the road to wellness. This is an important lesson for any of us who have children or who work with children or adolescents.
